We can use state lifting to pass data between two sibling component functions. But as the app grows bigger state lifting will be hard to manage and this will raise the complexity.

It is nice to receive the data in props only that the component is needed. (and not to pass to some other child component)

# Context

Context is a concept in React which allow us to manage state behind the scene such that we actually are able to directly change it from any component in our app and directly pass it to any component in our app without building a prop chain

> Component-wide, "behind the scenes" State Storage

## Example
Create store/auth-context.js and we will import createContext() from react which will take initial state value that will be component wide.
```jsx
// auth-context.js file exporting AuthContext

const AuthContext = React.createContext({isLoggedIn: false});
export default AuthContext;
```
> The default value given here like this is only used if we would consume in the component without having a provider. (in the next code we are using consumer so that no need to give default value at this time and default value there will be given from **value** prop)

To use this in our components we need to provide it in the components. All components wrapped by the AuthContext should have access to the context state. Also after providing it needed to be consumed some components.(we need to listen to it)

We can wrap the components like this.

### Provider

```jsx
// provider

import { AuthContext } from 'store/auth-context'

const App = () => {
    const [isLoggedIn, setIsLoggedIn] = useState(false);
    return (
        <AuthContext.provider value={{isLoggedIn: isLoggedIn}}>
        <SomeComp / >
        </AuthContext.provider>
    )
}
```
> AuthContext.provider is a component. All the components wrapped inside it will have access to the context.

The value prop is for providing initial value to the context. Here state value is given so every time state changes it will update the context state and consumer will receive the updated value.


### Consumer
We can consume context in two ways. 1. by using auth-context consumer or 2. by using a React hook.


#### by using auth-context consumer

> The consumer takes a child which is a function and in that function argument we will get the context data. So we need to move **our component's JSX code inside consumer's return**.

```jsx
// listen by auth-context consumer

import { AuthContext } from 'store/auth-context'

const App = () => {
    const [isLoggedIn, setIsLoggedIn] = useState(false);
    return (
        <AuthContext.consumer>
        {(ctx) => {
            return (
                <div>
                { ctx.isLoggedIn &&  <div>User is LoggedIn</div>}
                
                { !ctx.isLoggedIn && <div>Pls log in</div>}
                </div>
            )
        }}
        </AuthContext.consumer>
    )
}
```

#### useContext Hook

```jsx
// listen by useContext Hook

import { useState, useContext } from 'react';
import { AuthContext } from 'store/auth-context'

const App = () => {
    const [isLoggedIn, setIsLoggedIn] = useState(false);
    const ctx = useContext(AuthContext);
    return (
        <div>
            { ctx.isLoggedIn &&  <div>User is LoggedIn</div>}
        
            { !ctx.isLoggedIn && <div>Pls log in</div>}
        </div>
    )
}
```
